The Joe Rogan experience.
Are you aware of the controversy surrounding the male Mona. Lisa?
Do you know the story about this? The male Alisa? No. No. It's um,
there's the most expensive painting ever sold.
It was sold for $400 million to, uh,
the Ben Salaam. Excuse. What is his name?
Solomon Mohammad bin Salaam. The, is that, am I saying his name right?
The head of Saudi Arabia. MBS. MBS. Okay. What is his actual name though?
I'm sorry, I.
It up. It's probably Brian Saunders.
Mohammad bin Salaam.
Salamanca.
Okay. The MBS,
the head of Saudi Arabia bought it for $450 million.
This is it.
And the crazy thing is someone bought it at one point in time in the
past,
I want to say for $1,500 and they didn't
realize that it may or may not be,
cause this is where it gets controversial may or may not be the work of Leonardo
da Vinci. So it was, it was restored. So go do the history of this,
the controversy and the, his documentary about it. Yeah, there's a,
there's a crazy history to it. Um,
where someone bought it for extremely low amount and then a Russian oligarch
bought it for over a hundred million dollars C $1,175 at an addict
sale in new Orleans for a dirty painting that he hadn't even seen after a
painstaking restoration, I think took a decade.
Some began whispering that it might be the by the master himself.
So an art dealer in 2005 paid
$1,175 for it. So 16 years ago,
someone paid $1,175 for the most expensive
painting ever sold. So then this guy go down, scroll down.
I can't get this article is, oh, that's one of them because he economists, um,
there's a bunch of other articles that are free that you could read about it.
But it's a, it's a crazy story. So this,
this person I believe started working on it in 2005,
started the restoration.
And then by the time I think it was around 2015,
they started realizing like, holy.
Cause I guess sometimes in the past someone would take a great painting and
they would paint over it.
Which is.
Crazy. Yeah.
And so then there's this insanely painstaking restoration
project where you removing layer upon layer upon
layer.
What $60. This was sold for 1958.
$60. So it gets even crazier. Yeah.
An article from 2017 where it was on auction for even less than it was just
sold.
Yeah. So it's an Oxford for a hundred million dollars then.
And that's when it was bought by the Russian oligarch before MBS bought it.
The controversy that the person who originally bought it should get a kickback
because.
Yeah, no, here's the controversy.
The controversy is it may not be by Leonardo da Vinci at all. I see.
And or it might be partly by DaVinci. And so Google this,
th th there's a scan of the image and I don't understand the technology involved
in a scan,
but the scan apparently revealed that there's more than one era of painting
or there's more than one application of painting,
meaning that more than one person worked on it at more than one time,
like an.
Exquisite corpse.
Hidden re-drawing Lisa. So this might not, no, no, this doesn't reveal it.
This is not, it it's it's about, there was a digital scan of that painting.
What is it called again? It said male, Mona, Lisa, I don't know.
There's another name for it. There's a name for that painting.
I forget what it is, but Salvatore Monday, Monday. Yeah. Silva Terma.
So when they did the scan,
there's something about the hands and the way the paint is done on that in
relation to the rest of it that it's like, you know,
they're talking about like microns,
they're measuring depth and layers and age and all sorts of different
and they truck. But when you're dealing with $450 million for a painting,
Jesus,
so it gets down to this despues long page about it.
Okay. See if you can see this, the images cause there's images of the, uh,
the analysis. If you scroll down, it's a beautiful painting. Yeah.
It is very beautiful. There's there's images.
Is that what it used to look like on the right?
I think that's what it used to look like.
And then they slowly but surely restored it to the point where it's at
now. Um, was that what it looked like? So versions of it, people would, yeah.
There's more than one version of it. So people would buy paintings like,
you know, a hundred years ago, 500 years ago and just start scribbling on it,
paint over it. Yeah. So they had to go over these things to restore them,
like insanely painstaking. Like I said,
it took like 10 years to, to restore that.
I see, I see they're doing like these, this is a, what do you call it?
Cross section analysis. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because they have to find like,
what is the original paint color? So they have to find the original layer.
Exactly.
So that's what it used to look like. Imagine that,
and then they bring it from that to what you see now,
like look at that crazy. So what, what does that mean? Then they paint over it.
Like how do they do that? I mean,
that's just someone paint over the old paint and make it look better.
Is that better? Like, isn't it better to be scratchy and all up.
And they originally.
I know, I know it's yeah. I guess it just depends on what you want. Right.
But that's the problem with this painting. So after all that,
after buying it for $450 million,
it's currently in controversial dispute as to whether or not it's actually the
work of Leonardo da Vinci.
So since they w they wanted him to, uh,
donate it to the Louvre in Paris. Yeah. But they were like,
we're not going to put it next to the Mona Lisa.
He wanted it to be next to the Mona Lisa, the male Mona Lisa,
or at least in the male model. And they're like, they're like, we don't,
we don't, we're not going to give this thread stamp.
We don't even know if this is real.
Wow. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. It's just, oh man. Could you imagine that,
that feeling of being rejected like that and you're like, imagine.
Got it. You're that guy, I mean, this is the guy that allegedly killed, uh,
Jamal Khashoggi for criticizing his regime. Yes. Okay. Um,
and have you ever seen that movie, that dissident, which is incredible movie,
but Bryan Fogel that details all the, the, the,
the events that took place? Oh, no, I haven't seen the crazy, but,
so he's the one that's in possession of this painting.
And now it's currently on his yacht.
So this $450 million painting is on his yacht.
And so art fanatics are like,
you can't have a painting on a yacht. Like if it's six, four, well,
not just that, the con the climate, like to have the right,
the seawater to have these paintings. I mean, maybe you only had it for a day,
or maybe you only had it like to tell everybody how did it there.
He actually has it in a client.
I imagine he would. I mean, come on. I don't know, man.
He's balling out of his mind buying $450 billion paintings.
He might be paying on it right now.
That's nothing, that's nothing. I do, whatever he.
Wants. He can do whatever he wants.
If you got the kind of money for $450 million painting, but it might not be,
it might not be legit. And apparently, so I go down a rabbit hole.
Apparently there is a massive market for illegitimate paintings and people get
robbed all the time. And there was in fact, a guy who was a master. There's a,
I believe is a documentary about him.
Who there's a big one on Netflix about this right now. I thought, that's.
What you're going to be like the master forgers.
Well, there was a guy who was, that was his trade.
What he would do was make fake Picassos.
So he would make his own work,
but in the style of Picasso and they would claim that this was a
loss because whoa. And he sold these things for millions,
millions of dollars.
Flux, one, this lady got, they found she was selling fake for a long time.
Oh, okay. I don't, I I've missed a lot of people off. I've not seen that one,
but there's a guy who was,
he did time and he got released eventually.
And he did time for creating fake masterpieces.
And it's really crazy because the guy was insanely talented. Right.
His art was magnificent. Right, right, right.
But it wasn't Michelangelo, conned people.
I mean, the art was great, but it cons people.
But it was it's, it's weird. It's like, it's. So my uncle said this to me once.
This is really funny thing because when I was a kid,
I would pretend I brushed my teeth. Right. But I,
I really didn't brush my teeth and my uncle, my uncle Vinny.
Who's a really interesting guy. He's very creative guy as an artist.
And he said, it's funny because I used to do the same thing. But once,
eventually I realized I put so much effort into pretending that I brushed my
teeth, that I could have just brushed my teeth would that same amount of effort.
And I wouldn't have to pretend.
And I thought about my God he's smart catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan
experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan express.